README.md, before:

# Shellies Discovery

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![GitHub All Releases][downloads-total-shield]][releases]
[![hacs_badge][hacs-shield]][hacs]
[![Community Forum][forum-shield]][forum]
[![Buy me a coffee][buy-me-a-coffee-shield]][buy-me-a-coffee]
[![PayPal_Me][paypal-me-shield]][paypal-me]

![Screenshot](https://github.com/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery/blob/master/images/shellies-integration.png?raw=true)

This script adds MQTT discovery support for Shelly devices in the [Home Assistant](https://home-assistant.io/).

## Gen2 devices information

Pro/Plus devies are supported by [Shellies Discovery Gen2 script](https://github.com/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery-gen2).

## Prerequisites

This script needs Home Assistant `python_script` component so, if you never used it, I strongly suggest you to follow the [official instruction](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/python_script#writing-your-first-script) and check that `python_script` is properly configured and it's working.

## Installation

You can download `shellies_discovery.py` file and save it in `<config>/python_scripts` folder or install the script via [HACS](https://hacs.xyz/).
You won't find **Shellies Discovery** in the HACS **Integrations** section, nor add it as a custom repository. You must have a properly configured `python_script` component to be able to install the script from the HACS **Automations** section.

After installing the script and adding automations, run `Shellies Announce` automation or restart Home Assistant twice.

Go to [HA community](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/shellies-discovery-script/94048) for support and help.

## Supported devices

- Shelly 1 (with external sensors and external switch)
- Shelly 1L (with external sensors)
- Shelly 1PM (with external sensors)
- Shelly 2 (relays and roller mode)
- Shelly 2.5 (relays and roller mode)
- Shelly 3EM
- Shelly 4Pro
- Shelly Air
- Shelly Button1 (battery or USB powered)
- Shelly Dimmer
- Shelly Dimmer 2
- Shelly Door/Window
- Shelly Door/Window 2
- Shelly DUO
- Shelly EM
- Shelly Flood
- Shelly Gas
- Shelly H&T (battery or USB powered)
- Shelly i3
- Shelly Motion (battery or USB powered)
- Shelly Motion 2 (battery or USB powered)
- Shelly Plug
- Shelly Plug S
- Shelly Plug US
- Shelly RGBW2 (color and white mode)
- Shelly Sense (battery or USB powered)
- Shelly Smoke
- Shelly UNI (with external sensors)
- Shelly Valve
- Shelly Vintage

## How to debug

To debug the script add this to your `logger` configuration:

```yaml
# configuration.yaml file
logger:
  default: warning
  logs:
    homeassistant.components.python_script: debug
    homeassistant.components.automation: info
```

## Troubleshooting checklist

- correct MQTT configuration in Home Assistant with `discovery` enabled
- same `discovery_prefix` in Home Assistant configuration and in script configuration
- Shellies firmware updated to current version
- Home Assistant updated to current version
- enabled MQTT in Shellies configuration
- you can't manually run the `shellies_discovery.py` script (`'dict object' has no attribute 'payload_json'` error)

## Shelly device name

The script supports Shelly devices with non-standard names (`Internet & Security` -> `Advanced - developer settings` -> `Custom MQTT prefix` in the Shelly WWW panel).
If you want to change the name of the Shelly device, you must first remove the device from Home Assistant (`Configuration` -> `Integrations` -> `MQTT` -> Device -> `Remove`). Otherwise, all device entities will be duplicated.

## Minimal configuration

```yaml
# configuration.yaml file
python_script:

# automations.yaml file
- id: shellies_announce
  alias: 'Shellies Announce'
  trigger:
    - platform: homeassistant
      event: start
    - platform: time_pattern
      hours: "/1"  # Modifying this if you are using Shelly Motion can drain your device's battery quickly.
  action:
    service: mqtt.publish
    data:
      topic: shellies/command
      payload: announce

- id: 'shellies_discovery'
  alias: 'Shellies Discovery'
  mode: queued
  max: 999
  trigger:
    platform: mqtt
    topic: shellies/announce
  action:
    service: python_script.shellies_discovery
    data:
      id: '{{ trigger.payload_json.id }}'
      mac: '{{ trigger.payload_json.mac }}'
      fw_ver: '{{ trigger.payload_json.fw_ver }}'
      model: '{{ trigger.payload_json.model | default }}'
      mode: '{{ trigger.payload_json.mode | default }}'
      host: '{{ trigger.payload_json.ip }}'
```

## Custom configuration example

```yaml
# configuration.yaml file
python_script:

# automations.yaml file
- id: shellies_announce
  alias: 'Shellies Announce'
  trigger:
    - platform: homeassistant
      event: start
    - platform: time_pattern
      hours: "/1"  # Modifying this if you are using Shelly Motion can drain your device's battery quickly.
  action:
    service: mqtt.publish
    data:
      topic: shellies/command
      payload: announce

- id: 'shellies_discovery'
  alias: 'Shellies Discovery'
  mode: queued
  max: 999
  trigger:
    platform: mqtt
    topic: shellies/announce
  action:
    service: python_script.shellies_discovery
    data:
      id: '{{ trigger.payload_json.id }}'
      mac: '{{ trigger.payload_json.mac }}'
      fw_ver: '{{ trigger.payload_json.fw_ver }}'
      model: '{{ trigger.payload_json.model | default }}'
      mode: '{{ trigger.payload_json.mode | default }}'
      host: '{{ trigger.payload_json.ip }}'
      discovery_prefix: 'hass'
      qos: 2
      shelly1-AABB9900:
        relay-0: "light"
        ext-temperature-0: true
        ext-temperature-1: true
        ext-temperature-2: true
        force_update_sensors: true
        ext-switch: true
      shelly1pm-aabb9911:
        ext-temperature-0: true
        ext-humidity-0: true
        push_off_delay: false
        force_update_sensors: true
      shelly1l-ddbb9911:
        ext-temperature-0: true
        ext-temperature-1: true
        ext-temperature-2: true
        ext-humidity-0: true
      shellyswitch-123409FF:
        relay-0: "fan"
        relay-0-name: "Bathroom Fan"
        relay-1: "light"
        relay-1-name: "Livingroom Light"
      shellyswitch-123409cc:
        relay-1: "fan"
      shellydimmer-883409cc:
        light-0-name: "Bedroom Lamp"
      shellyswitch25-334455AA:
        roller-0-name: "Garage"
        roller-0-class: "garage"
      shellyplug-s-CCBBCCAA:
        relay-0: "light"
        force_update_sensors: true
      shellyht-11AA00CCDD:
        force_update_sensors: true
        expire_after: 500
      shellyht-11AA00CCEE:
        powered: "battery"
      shellyht-11AA00CCFF:
        powered: "ac"
      shellyswitch2-AA4455AA:
        position_template: "{{ '{% if value | float < 30 %}0{% else %}{{ value }}{% endif %}' }}"
        set_position_template: "{{ '{%if position | float < 30 %}0{% else %}{{ position }}{% endif %}' }}"
      shellybutton1-112200CCFF:
        powered: "ac"
      shellymotionsensor-113300CCFF:
        powered: "ac"
      shellyrgbw2-AA123FF32:
        light-1-name: "Living room"
        light-2-name: "Bedroom"
        light-3-name: "Kitchen"
      shellyem-BB23CC45:
        force_update_sensors: true
      ignored_devices:
        - shelly1-DD0011
        - shellyem-EECC22
```

## Battery powered devices

For battery powered devices, the script requires you to set the value of 12h for `sleep_mode.period` or to configure `expire_after` yourself.

Don't send `announce` topic more than once an hour if you're using Shelly Motion! This can quickly drain your device's battery.

## How to use device automation triggers?

![device_automation](https://github.com/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery/blob/master/images/device-triggers.gif)


## Script arguments

key | optional | type | default | description
-- | -- | -- | -- | --
`discovery_prefix` | True | string | `homeassistant` | MQTT discovery prefix
`qos` | True | integer | `0` | MQTT QoS, you can use `0`, `1` or `2`
`ignored_devices` | True | list | `None` | list of devices to ignore
`ignore_device_model` | True | boolean | `false` | ignore device model to generate device name
`use_kwh` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | does energy sensors use kWh unit instead of Wh
`optimistic` | True | boolean | `false` | `optimistic` | `optimistic` option for cover entities

## Device arguments

key | optional | type | default | possible values | description
-- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
`device_name` | True | string | | name of the device
`relay-<NUM>` | True | string | `switch` | `switch`, `light`, `fan` | component to use with the relay number `NUM`
`relay-<NUM>-name` | True | string | None | string | friendly name of the relay number `NUM`
`roller-<NUM>-name` | True | string | None | string | friendly name of the roller number `NUM`
`roller-<NUM>-class` | True | string | None | string | [device_class](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/cover/#device-class) of the roller number `NUM`
`light-<NUM>-name` | True | string | None | string | friendly name of the light number `NUM`
`ext-temperature-<NUM>` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | presence of temperature sensor number `NUM`
`ext-humidity-<NUM>` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | presence of humidity sensor number `NUM`
`ext-switch` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | presence of external switch
`force_update_sensors` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | [force update](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#force_update) for sensors
`powered` | True | string | `battery` | `ac`, `battery` | `ac` or `battery` powered for Shelly H&T, Motion, Sense and Button1
`expire_after` | True | integer | 51840 | | [expire after](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/binary_sensor.mqtt/#expire_after) for battery powered sensors in seconds
`use_fahrenheit` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | does H&T, Food or DW2 temperature sensor use the Fahrenheit scale


[releases]: https://github.com/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery/releases
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery.svg?style=popout
[downloads-total-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery/total
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/t/shellies-discovery-script/94048
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=popout
[buy-me-a-coffee-shield]: https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?label=%20&message=Buy%20me%20a%20coffee&color=6f4e37&logo=buy%20me%20a%20coffee&logoColor=white
[buy-me-a-coffee]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/QnLdxeaqO
[paypal-me-shield]: https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?label=%20&message=PayPal.Me&logo=paypal
[paypal-me]: https://www.paypal.me/bieniu79
[hacs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg
[hacs]: https://hacs.xyz/docs/default_repositories

Commit message:

Add missing support for temp in F for Motion 2 (#351)
* fix(motion2): Missing support for temp in F

Updating Motion2 device to support temperatures in Fahrenheit.

* fix(device args): Update use_fahrenheit argument

Updating `use_fahrenheit` to explicitly mention the Motion2 temperature sensor

* fix(device args): Update use_fahrenheit argument

Updating `use_fahrenheit` to explicitly mention the Motion2 temperature sensor

README.md, after:

# Shellies Discovery

[![GitHub Release][releases-shield]][releases]
[![GitHub All Releases][downloads-total-shield]][releases]
[![hacs_badge][hacs-shield]][hacs]
[![Community Forum][forum-shield]][forum]
[![Buy me a coffee][buy-me-a-coffee-shield]][buy-me-a-coffee]
[![PayPal_Me][paypal-me-shield]][paypal-me]

![Screenshot](https://github.com/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery/blob/master/images/shellies-integration.png?raw=true)

This script adds MQTT discovery support for Shelly devices in the [Home Assistant](https://home-assistant.io/).

## Gen2 devices information

Pro/Plus devies are supported by [Shellies Discovery Gen2 script](https://github.com/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery-gen2).

## Prerequisites

This script needs Home Assistant `python_script` component so, if you never used it, I strongly suggest you to follow the [official instruction](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/python_script#writing-your-first-script) and check that `python_script` is properly configured and it's working.

## Installation

You can download `shellies_discovery.py` file and save it in `<config>/python_scripts` folder or install the script via [HACS](https://hacs.xyz/).
You won't find **Shellies Discovery** in the HACS **Integrations** section, nor add it as a custom repository. You must have a properly configured `python_script` component to be able to install the script from the HACS **Automations** section.

After installing the script and adding automations, run `Shellies Announce` automation or restart Home Assistant twice.

Go to [HA community](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/shellies-discovery-script/94048) for support and help.

## Supported devices

- Shelly 1 (with external sensors and external switch)
- Shelly 1L (with external sensors)
- Shelly 1PM (with external sensors)
- Shelly 2 (relays and roller mode)
- Shelly 2.5 (relays and roller mode)
- Shelly 3EM
- Shelly 4Pro
- Shelly Air
- Shelly Button1 (battery or USB powered)
- Shelly Dimmer
- Shelly Dimmer 2
- Shelly Door/Window
- Shelly Door/Window 2
- Shelly DUO
- Shelly EM
- Shelly Flood
- Shelly Gas
- Shelly H&T (battery or USB powered)
- Shelly i3
- Shelly Motion (battery or USB powered)
- Shelly Motion 2 (battery or USB powered)
- Shelly Plug
- Shelly Plug S
- Shelly Plug US
- Shelly RGBW2 (color and white mode)
- Shelly Sense (battery or USB powered)
- Shelly Smoke
- Shelly UNI (with external sensors)
- Shelly Valve
- Shelly Vintage

## How to debug

To debug the script add this to your `logger` configuration:

```yaml
# configuration.yaml file
logger:
  default: warning
  logs:
    homeassistant.components.python_script: debug
    homeassistant.components.automation: info
```

## Troubleshooting checklist

- correct MQTT configuration in Home Assistant with `discovery` enabled
- same `discovery_prefix` in Home Assistant configuration and in script configuration
- Shellies firmware updated to current version
- Home Assistant updated to current version
- enabled MQTT in Shellies configuration
- you can't manually run the `shellies_discovery.py` script (`'dict object' has no attribute 'payload_json'` error)

## Shelly device name

The script supports Shelly devices with non-standard names (`Internet & Security` -> `Advanced - developer settings` -> `Custom MQTT prefix` in the Shelly WWW panel).
If you want to change the name of the Shelly device, you must first remove the device from Home Assistant (`Configuration` -> `Integrations` -> `MQTT` -> Device -> `Remove`). Otherwise, all device entities will be duplicated.

## Minimal configuration

```yaml
# configuration.yaml file
python_script:

# automations.yaml file
- id: shellies_announce
  alias: 'Shellies Announce'
  trigger:
    - platform: homeassistant
      event: start
    - platform: time_pattern
      hours: "/1"  # Modifying this if you are using Shelly Motion can drain your device's battery quickly.
  action:
    service: mqtt.publish
    data:
      topic: shellies/command
      payload: announce

- id: 'shellies_discovery'
  alias: 'Shellies Discovery'
  mode: queued
  max: 999
  trigger:
    platform: mqtt
    topic: shellies/announce
  action:
    service: python_script.shellies_discovery
    data:
      id: '{{ trigger.payload_json.id }}'
      mac: '{{ trigger.payload_json.mac }}'
      fw_ver: '{{ trigger.payload_json.fw_ver }}'
      model: '{{ trigger.payload_json.model | default }}'
      mode: '{{ trigger.payload_json.mode | default }}'
      host: '{{ trigger.payload_json.ip }}'
```

## Custom configuration example

```yaml
# configuration.yaml file
python_script:

# automations.yaml file
- id: shellies_announce
  alias: 'Shellies Announce'
  trigger:
    - platform: homeassistant
      event: start
    - platform: time_pattern
      hours: "/1"  # Modifying this if you are using Shelly Motion can drain your device's battery quickly.
  action:
    service: mqtt.publish
    data:
      topic: shellies/command
      payload: announce

- id: 'shellies_discovery'
  alias: 'Shellies Discovery'
  mode: queued
  max: 999
  trigger:
    platform: mqtt
    topic: shellies/announce
  action:
    service: python_script.shellies_discovery
    data:
      id: '{{ trigger.payload_json.id }}'
      mac: '{{ trigger.payload_json.mac }}'
      fw_ver: '{{ trigger.payload_json.fw_ver }}'
      model: '{{ trigger.payload_json.model | default }}'
      mode: '{{ trigger.payload_json.mode | default }}'
      host: '{{ trigger.payload_json.ip }}'
      discovery_prefix: 'hass'
      qos: 2
      shelly1-AABB9900:
        relay-0: "light"
        ext-temperature-0: true
        ext-temperature-1: true
        ext-temperature-2: true
        force_update_sensors: true
        ext-switch: true
      shelly1pm-aabb9911:
        ext-temperature-0: true
        ext-humidity-0: true
        push_off_delay: false
        force_update_sensors: true
      shelly1l-ddbb9911:
        ext-temperature-0: true
        ext-temperature-1: true
        ext-temperature-2: true
        ext-humidity-0: true
      shellyswitch-123409FF:
        relay-0: "fan"
        relay-0-name: "Bathroom Fan"
        relay-1: "light"
        relay-1-name: "Livingroom Light"
      shellyswitch-123409cc:
        relay-1: "fan"
      shellydimmer-883409cc:
        light-0-name: "Bedroom Lamp"
      shellyswitch25-334455AA:
        roller-0-name: "Garage"
        roller-0-class: "garage"
      shellyplug-s-CCBBCCAA:
        relay-0: "light"
        force_update_sensors: true
      shellyht-11AA00CCDD:
        force_update_sensors: true
        expire_after: 500
      shellyht-11AA00CCEE:
        powered: "battery"
      shellyht-11AA00CCFF:
        powered: "ac"
      shellyswitch2-AA4455AA:
        position_template: "{{ '{% if value | float < 30 %}0{% else %}{{ value }}{% endif %}' }}"
        set_position_template: "{{ '{%if position | float < 30 %}0{% else %}{{ position }}{% endif %}' }}"
      shellybutton1-112200CCFF:
        powered: "ac"
      shellymotionsensor-113300CCFF:
        powered: "ac"
      shellyrgbw2-AA123FF32:
        light-1-name: "Living room"
        light-2-name: "Bedroom"
        light-3-name: "Kitchen"
      shellyem-BB23CC45:
        force_update_sensors: true
      ignored_devices:
        - shelly1-DD0011
        - shellyem-EECC22
```

## Battery powered devices

For battery powered devices, the script requires you to set the value of 12h for `sleep_mode.period` or to configure `expire_after` yourself.

Don't send `announce` topic more than once an hour if you're using Shelly Motion! This can quickly drain your device's battery.

## How to use device automation triggers?

![device_automation](https://github.com/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery/blob/master/images/device-triggers.gif)


## Script arguments

key | optional | type | default | description
-- | -- | -- | -- | --
`discovery_prefix` | True | string | `homeassistant` | MQTT discovery prefix
`qos` | True | integer | `0` | MQTT QoS, you can use `0`, `1` or `2`
`ignored_devices` | True | list | `None` | list of devices to ignore
`ignore_device_model` | True | boolean | `false` | ignore device model to generate device name
`use_kwh` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | does energy sensors use kWh unit instead of Wh
`optimistic` | True | boolean | `false` | `optimistic` | `optimistic` option for cover entities

## Device arguments

key | optional | type | default | possible values | description
-- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
`device_name` | True | string | | | name of the device
`relay-<NUM>` | True | string | `switch` | `switch`, `light`, `fan` | component to use with the relay number `NUM`
`relay-<NUM>-name` | True | string | None | string | friendly name of the relay number `NUM`
`roller-<NUM>-name` | True | string | None | string | friendly name of the roller number `NUM`
`roller-<NUM>-class` | True | string | None | string | [device_class](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/cover/#device-class) of the roller number `NUM`
`light-<NUM>-name` | True | string | None | string | friendly name of the light number `NUM`
`ext-temperature-<NUM>` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | presence of temperature sensor number `NUM`
`ext-humidity-<NUM>` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | presence of humidity sensor number `NUM`
`ext-switch` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | presence of external switch
`force_update_sensors` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | [force update](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/sensor.mqtt/#force_update) for sensors
`powered` | True | string | `battery` | `ac`, `battery` | `ac` or `battery` powered for Shelly H&T, Motion, Sense and Button1
`expire_after` | True | integer | 51840 | | [expire after](https://www.home-assistant.io/integrations/binary_sensor.mqtt/#expire_after) for battery powered sensors in seconds
`use_fahrenheit` | True | boolean | `false` | `true`, `false` | whether the temperature sensor is configured in Fahrenheit for H&T, Flood, Motion2 or DW2

[releases]: https://github.com/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery/releases
[releases-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/release/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery.svg?style=popout
[downloads-total-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/bieniu/ha-shellies-discovery/total
[forum]: https://community.home-assistant.io/t/shellies-discovery-script/94048
[forum-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/community-forum-brightgreen.svg?style=popout
[buy-me-a-coffee-shield]: https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?label=%20&message=Buy%20me%20a%20coffee&color=6f4e37&logo=buy%20me%20a%20coffee&logoColor=white
[buy-me-a-coffee]: https://www.buymeacoffee.com/QnLdxeaqO
[paypal-me-shield]: https://img.shields.io/static/v1.svg?label=%20&message=PayPal.Me&logo=paypal
[paypal-me]: https://www.paypal.me/bieniu79
[hacs-shield]: https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-orange.svg
[hacs]: https://hacs.xyz/docs/default_repositories
